╭─── Claude Code v2.1.110 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│                                                    │ Tips for getting        │
│                Welcome back Markus!                │ started                 │
│                                                    │ Run /init to create a … │
│                       ▐▛███▜▌                      │ ─────────────────────── │
│                      ▝▜█████▛▘                     │ Recent activity         │
│                        ▘▘ ▝▝                       │ No recent activity      │
│       Opus 4.6 (1M context) · Claude Max ·         │                         │
│       mararn1618@gmail.com's Organization          │                         │
│  ~/…/worktrees/agent-workshop/honeysuckle-alyssum  │                         │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

❯ /model                                                                        
  ⎿  Set model to Opus 4.6 with max effort

❯ Unknown command: /discuss                                                     

⏺ Args from unknown skill: 
  @/Users/work1618/.superset/worktrees/agent-workshop/honeysuckle-alyssu
  m/docs/context/agentic-workshop-handoff/00-HANDOFF-PROMPT.md

❯ /discuss-plan-implement:discuss                                               
@/Users/work1618/.superset/worktrees/agent-workshop/honeysuckle-alyssum/docs/co 
ntext/agentic-workshop-handoff/00-HANDOFF-PROMPT.md And you will most likely    
also need to reach the other files first to get some context for that prompt.   
  ⎿  Read docs/context/agentic-workshop-handoff/00-HANDOFF-PROMPT.md (42 lines)

⏺ Let me start by reading all the context files to understand the full picture
  before we discuss.

  Read 7 files (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Now let me check the current project structure and look at the claude-viz
  skill since that's referenced as the foundation.

  Searched for 1 pattern, listed 1 directory (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Let me find the claude-viz skill source to understand the existing tool that
  we're building on.

⏺ Explore(Find claude-viz skill source)
  ⎿  Done (19 tool uses · 108.1k tokens · 33s)
  (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Good. Let me read the core files of the existing claude-viz tool.

  Read 3 files (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Let me read the rest of the server to understand the full API and embedded UI.

  Read 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ I've now read all six handoff documents plus the existing claude-viz tool
  source code (the pointer in docs/context/existing_skill.md led me to it). Let
  me share what I've found and start the gap analysis.

  ---
  Gap Analysis: claude-viz vs. Agentic Workshop Vision

  What claude-viz already gives us (directly reusable):

  - Sidebar page navigation with session filtering
  - Multi-card grid layout per page (full/half sizing)
  - Five card types: mermaid, kroki, html, svg, markdown
  - SSE for real-time agent-to-browser push
  - REST API for the agent to create pages (POST /api/pages)
  - Diagram zoom/pan, fullscreen, pop-out
  - Single-file Bun server, zero dependencies
  - The dark GitHub-style theme and the entire rendering pipeline

  The fundamental gap: communication is one-way. Claude-viz is an
  agent-to-browser display. The agent pushes pages; the user looks at them.
  There is no mechanism for the user to send anything back to the agent — no
  chat, no comments, no approvals, no answers to questions. The entire Agentic
  Workshop value proposition (the "interactive moderated workshop" feel) lives
  in the reverse channel that doesn't exist yet.

  Specific missing pieces:

  ┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬────────┐
  │                          Needed                           │ Status │
  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Browser → agent inbox (comments, chat, approvals)         │ New    │
  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Per-slide chat panel                                      │ New    │
  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Tile-level comments with apply-now/defer                  │ New    │
  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Question-tile input controls                              │ New    │
  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Approve-slide / approve-all                               │ New    │
  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Slide update/removal API (only create + delete-all exist) │ New    │
  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Individual tile update API                                │ New    │
  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Attention direction / highlight                           │ New    │
  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Workshop lifecycle (init → active → finalized)            │ New    │
  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Workshop file format (structured document)                │ New    │
  ├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Finalization → alignment document output                  │ New    │
  └───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴────────┘

  What I'd call "extend" vs "genuinely new": The server architecture, the
  sidebar+main layout, the card rendering system, and the SSE infrastructure are
   all solid foundations to extend. The genuinely new work is the bidirectional
  communication model and the workshop lifecycle on top of it.

  ---
  This brings me to the first question — it's the one everything else hangs on:

  How does user input flow back to the agent? The browser needs to send chat
  messages, tile comments, approvals, and question answers to the agent. I see
  two natural approaches:

  - A: Server inbox. The browser POSTs events to the server (e.g., POST 
  /api/inbox). The agent polls an endpoint (e.g., GET /api/inbox) to pick them
  up. Simple, fits the existing REST pattern, and the agent can poll at whatever
   cadence makes sense.
  - B: File-based inbox. The server writes user events to a file on disk. The
  agent reads the file (or watches it). This aligns with your "markdown as
  universal interface" philosophy but adds complexity for ordering and
  atomicity.

  Both assume the agent stays in the same Claude Code session during the
  workshop. Do you have a leaning — or is there a third option I'm missing?

✻ Brewed for 2m 17s

❯ "Per-slide chat panel" <- I am not yet sure if that chat panel should be per  
  slide or if it is just a general chat panel. I could imagine it is a more     
  general chat panel, not per slide.                                            
                                                                                
  Input FLow: I really prefer the server inbox. And that we have polling.       
  However, I am a little bit concerned that this inbox, it needs to be session  
  scoped, that not the wrong agent picks up some messages. messages. And also I 
   am a little bit concerned that when the the server shuts down, these         
  messages are somehow gone. that is somehow deleted. deleted. But I don't know 
   about this deleted thing. Maybe in the future we could leave this for now,   
  keep it simple and in the future have something like a browser export that    
  the user can export the content of this workshop with a button click onto the 
   disk into a file. He can do this himself. And then he could theoretically    
  continue this workshop by loading this file. That also means that all the     
  inboxes and comments, they are also in the state and that when I export them  
  later, that they also get exported and they can also get imported. And for    
  the inbox it's important when the agent polls the inbox, after it is it       
  should not be deleted, it should be just marked as consumed by the agent,     
  something like this.                                                          

⏺ Good decisions. Let me make sure I'm tracking them correctly:

  - Chat panel: general, not per-slide
  - Inbox: server-side, REST polling, session-scoped
  - Consumption model: mark as consumed, never delete — the full event history
  stays in state
  - Persistence: in-memory for now; future export/import from browser so user
  can save and resume (and all inbox events, comments, etc. are part of that
  exported state)

  Two follow-up questions:

  1. Chat panel placement. The current claude-viz layout is sidebar (260px) +
  main content area. Where does the general chat panel live? I see two natural
  options:

  - Right panel — a third column alongside the slides. Always visible, doesn't
  compete with slide content. Like a Slack sidebar next to a presentation.
  - Bottom drawer — collapsible panel below the slide area. Maximizes horizontal
   space for tiles but requires the user to actively open it.

  Do you have a preference, or should I just pick the one that fits better?

  2. Tile comments vs. chat. The original vision had two separate interaction
  modes: general chat AND per-tile comments (with apply-now/defer toggle). Now
  that chat is general rather than per-slide, do tile comments still exist as a
  separate mechanism? Or does the general chat absorb that role — e.g., you'd
  just type "on slide 3, tile 2: change X to Y" in the chat and the agent
  figures it out?

  This matters because tile comments are a significant chunk of new UI work
  (inline comment affordances on every tile, the toggle, the status tracking).
  If the chat can handle it, that's a big simplification.

❯ I am thinking of the right panel right now. I don't know if we need to make   
  it flexible to also have this as a left side panel, but but like then divide  
  the left slide overview panel and the chat panel that they are like in the    
  same column, but vertically this like vertically sliced but for now let's     
  make it the chat panel on the right side and the width can be dragged and     
  dropped. like the width can be changed it will be I think important.          
                                                                                
  I think title comments still exist. I want to have it. I wanted to have the   
  interaction via chat. I want to have the interaction via tile comments where  
  I can comment any tile I want. and I want to have the tiles which are         
  specifically question tiles that the the agent puts there. And actually these 
   can be the same as the same functionality as the generic comments on the     
  tiles. It can just be a tile which is intended to be commented. We don't need 
   to have this separate.                                                       

⏺ Good, that's clear. Let me capture what you've said:

  Chat panel: Right-side panel, resizable via drag. Future possibility of moving
   it to the left (stacked with sidebar), but V1 is right-side only.

  Three interaction modes, confirmed:
  1. General chat — right panel, free-form conversation
  2. Tile comments — per-tile, attached to any tile
  3. Question-tiles — not a separate type; just a regular tile that the agent
  creates with the intent of being commented on. Same comment mechanism,
  different framing. That's a smart simplification.

  So the "question-tile" is really just an ordinary tile (probably markdown
  type) where the agent writes a question, and the user responds via the same
  comment affordance available on every tile. No special UI needed beyond the
  standard comment system.

  This means the comment system is the core interactive primitive on the slide
  side. Every tile gets it. The agent uses it for questions; the user uses it
  for feedback.

  Next two questions:

  1. Tile comment UX — apply-now vs. defer. The original vision had a toggle on
  each comment: "apply now" (agent updates the tile immediately) vs. "defer"
  (stored as annotation, processed later). Is this still desired? And if so, is
  this a toggle the user sets when writing the comment, or a default that can be
   changed after?

  2. Approval granularity. The vision described approve-per-slide and
  approve-all. With the general (not per-slide) chat, does per-slide approval
  still make sense? Or is it more like: you walk through the slides, discuss in
  chat, comment on tiles, and then when you're satisfied, hit one "Finalize
  Workshop" button? Per-slide approval adds state tracking per slide
  (approved/not) and visual indicators — worth it if you want to methodically
  work through a long workshop, but overhead if workshops are typically 5-8
  slides.

❯ Well, the user can decide this for every comment. The default is that the     
  comment is appended and not directly processed. and after it is appended and  
  not directly processed, the user can remove it, edit it or apply it directly. 
   So when I say apply, it means that the agent in the session gets a           
  notification, maybe via this inbox or some kind of communication mechanism    
  that this tile now should be updated or this slide should be updated, then    
  you can update it.                                                            
                                                                                
  Yeah, maybe one finalized workshop button is enough. I think we don't need    
  this to overcomplicate this.                                                  
                                                                                
  But I mean on the other side I am just worried about one thing: If the        
  workshop is too long We need to make a break. How do we do this? How do we do 
   this? I'm not sure. Maybe it can be solved later with this export            
  functionality. But or maybe we just ignore it for now. So yeah, I think we    
  keep it simple. We don't build it right now, but we should keep it in the     
  back of our minds.                                                            

⏺ Good. Let me make sure I have the comment lifecycle right:

  Comment flow:
  1. User writes a comment on a tile → it's appended (visible but not acted on)
  2. While appended, user can edit it, remove it, or apply it
  3. Apply sends a notification to the agent's inbox → agent reads it and
  updates the tile/slide accordingly

  So the default state is "pending annotation" and the user explicitly promotes
  it to "apply" when ready. That's clean — the user stays in control of when the
   agent acts.

  Finalization: Single "Finalize Workshop" button. No per-slide approval.

  Breaks / long workshops: Noted as a future concern. The export/import
  mechanism you described earlier would naturally solve this — export state,
  close session, import later, resume. We won't build it now but the in-memory
  state model should be designed so it's serializable later. I'll keep that in
  mind.

  Let me move to the next area. I want to ask about the agent's side of this:

  1. Agent transport — how does the agent call the server? In claude-viz, the
  agent uses curl via Bash to POST pages. For the workshop, the agent needs to
  do more: push slides, update tiles, post chat messages, poll the inbox. Two
  options:

  - Keep curl/Bash — same pattern as claude-viz. The skill instructions tell the
   agent which curl commands to use. Simple, proven, no new infrastructure.
  - MCP server — the workshop server registers as an MCP tool provider. The
  agent calls push_slide(), read_inbox(), etc. as native tool calls. Cleaner
  from the agent's perspective but more infrastructure to build.

  The requirements doc flagged this as an open question. My instinct says start
  with curl/Bash since that's what claude-viz already does and it works. MCP can
   come later if the curl approach gets unwieldy. What's your take?

  2. Workshop initiation. How does a workshop start? I'm assuming: the user runs
   something like /workshop "Feature X" in Claude Code, the agent does its
  silent preparation (reads code, forms understanding), builds the slides,
  pushes them to the server, then tells the user "workshop ready, open your
  browser." Is that roughly right, or do you see it differently?

❯ Well, I really liked curl because everything could be embedded just in one    
  scale. I would install one skill and it has the server typescript file and it 
   can just start and the The agent can just use curl to push notifications to  
  this or push content to this. Now that we have more actions, or what I did    
  not like about this was that many times in the terminal CLI I would have to   
  approve that the agent now pushes something. thing. I really did not like     
  this. It was interfering with like working. So maybe an MCP server would be   
  better, but now I think MCP2 calls also need to approve this. And also, so    
  one thing I do not like about the MCP server is that I need to most likely    
  install it in my settings for Claude. So these are my thoughts. What are your 
   thoughts? What are your thoughts? If we can continue with curl and annotate  
  that we built the MCP server later, or if there there is a way to like, you   
  know, So, avoid this constant approval of pushing the slides and so on, it    
  would of course be                                                            
                                                                                
  # workshop start                                                              
  So workshop start. Yes, I would say the user runs exactly such a command or   
  skill or whatever command is maybe better and that the input for this is this 
   new file format in the best case and if the file format does not exist then  
  the agent has to to create it and possibly write it to disk. So, this agent   
  needs to be able to prepare such a workshop file. and also I want to run this 
   preparation separately. It can be that I want to prepare a workshop but not  
  have it right now.                                                            

⏺ On the approval issue — I think curl can actually work without constant
  approvals. The existing claude-viz skill already handles this:

  allowed-tools: Bash(curl *), Bash(bun *), Bash(open *), ...

  The allowed-tools in the skill frontmatter pre-authorizes those commands
  within the skill's context. So curl to the local server would be auto-approved
   — no prompts. The workshop skill would do the same. Did you experience
  approval prompts even with claude-viz, or was that with other skills?

  If allowed-tools works reliably for this, I'd say stay with curl for V1. It
  keeps everything in one self-contained skill package, no separate MCP
  installation. We can always add an MCP layer later if the number of operations
   grows unwieldy.

  On the two-phase workflow — that's a really important clarification. So we
  have:

  - Prepare: Agent reads context, thinks, produces a workshop file on disk. No
  server, no browser. Could be triggered now and presented hours later.
  - Present: Agent loads the workshop file, starts the server, pushes slides to
  the browser, enters interactive mode.

  The workshop file format becomes the bridge between these two phases. That
  makes it the most foundational piece of the design — it's not just state, it's
   the handoff artifact.

  This leads me to two questions:

  1. Two commands or one? I'm thinking:
  - /workshop-prepare "Feature X" → writes
  docs/workshops/YYYY-MM-DD-feature-x.workshop.md (or whatever format)
  - /workshop docs/workshops/YYYY-MM-DD-feature-x.workshop.md → loads it, starts
   server, presents

  Or should /workshop "Feature X" do both (prepare then immediately present),
  with a separate /workshop-prepare for when you want to defer?

  2. The file format itself. Since this is the contract between prepare and
  present (and eventually export/import), I want to get the shape right. The
  requirements doc left this open. Given that you use markdown as your universal
   interface, my instinct is: a single file with YAML frontmatter + structured 
  markdown sections, similar to how your discussion files work. Something like
  slides as ## Slide: <title> sections, tiles as fenced blocks within slides,
  with metadata in the frontmatter. Does that feel right, or do you lean toward
  JSON, or a directory of files?
✻ Churned for 32s

❯ yes /workshop-prepare and /workshop-start; but it workshop start doesnt get a 
   workshop file as input, it will run workshop-prepare before                  
                                                                                
  --- format ---                                                                
                                                                                
  Yes, the markdown feels right, but you need to consider that you need to be   
  able to push fragments of this via the API of the server right but if this is 
   right then everything is good ; And I think we can also learn a little bit   
  from the current implementation of the other existing skills.                 

⏺ Right. So the flow is:

  - /workshop-prepare "Feature X" → agent prepares, writes workshop file to
  disk. Done.
  - /workshop-start "Feature X" → if workshop file exists, load it and present.
  If not, run prepare first, then present.

  Clean. /workshop-start is the "just make it work" command; /workshop-prepare
  is for when you want to separate the phases.

  On the format — yes, the key constraint is that the markdown file needs to be
  parseable into discrete API calls. Each slide and tile must be a
  self-contained fragment the agent can POST individually. So the file format is
   both human-readable markdown AND a structured document the agent can split
  into push_slide payloads.

  This is solvable. Something like: each slide is a markdown section with YAML
  metadata, each tile is a fenced block with a type annotation. The agent reads
  the file, parses section by section, and pushes each slide as a separate API
  call. The server doesn't need to know about the file format at all — it just
  receives slides with tiles, same as claude-viz receives pages with cards.

  Let me look at one more thing before my next question — the existing
  discuss-plan-implement skills to understand the patterns you've established.

  Let me check the structure of your skill packages.

⏺ Explore(Explore discuss-plan-implement skills)
  ⎿  Done (9 tool uses · 87.7k tokens · 31s)
  (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Good — now I can see the full pattern. Your skill packages follow a clean
  structure: plugin.json + command .md files with YAML frontmatter + file-based
  state in docs/. The workshop skill would follow the same pattern:

  agentic-workshop/
  ├── .claude-plugin/plugin.json
  ├── server.ts
  └── commands/
      ├── workshop-prepare.md
      └── workshop-start.md

  And the state lives in docs/workshops/ as markdown files, just like
  discussions live in docs/discussions/ and plans in docs/plans/.

  Two more questions and I think we're close to having full alignment:

  1. Input to /workshop-prepare. What does the agent receive? Looking at your
  existing workflow, /discuss takes a free-form topic description as its
  argument. I'm assuming /workshop-prepare works the same way — something like
  /workshop-prepare "Add JWT auth to the API gateway" — and the agent does its
  own context-gathering from the codebase. Or does it take something more
  structured, like a GitHub Issue URL?

  2. Final output. When the user clicks "Finalize Workshop," the system needs to
   produce a docs/discussions/YYYY-MM-DD-<slug>.md that feeds into /create-plan.
   The current /discuss output has specific sections: Intent, Acceptance
  Criteria, Key Decisions, Constraints, Out of Scope, Open Questions. Should
  finalization:

  - A: Have the agent write a curated summary in that exact format (like
  /discuss does today) — meaning the agent synthesizes the workshop into a clean
   document
  - B: Serialize the workshop state directly (slides become sections, comments
  become notes) — more mechanical, less curation

  Option A preserves compatibility with /create-plan out of the box. Option B is
   simpler to implement but might produce a messier document. I'd lean toward A
  — the agent writes the summary as its last act before the workshop closes.

✻ Sautéed for 1m 25s

❯ 1) yes, workshop prepare takes free form and the agent decides                
                                                                                
  2) nonono, how did you arrive at the conclusion that this should be like the  
  discussion plug-in. I think most important it is that we are saving the final 
   workshop state in a file. and then we need a second file which more or less  
  summarizes all of that but i don't know if it needs to have the same sections 
   or not Maybe you are right. maybe it should be similar to this but But I     
  mean, different kind of workshops could produce different kind of outputs,    
  right? It should be a little bit similar to what we receive as the input for  
  the workshop before we prepare the workshop state file. I haven't decided on  
  this yet. I don't know. Here I think, let us please think about this more.    
  What would be the best decision? I am not sure.                               
                                                                                
  Other) And I'm not sure, right now you are talking about file paths like docs 
   discussions and and also dogs workshops, and plants and so on. and after     
  that we have all kind of subfolders. I mean it would be a little bit strange  
  that we have the workshop result in one folder in workshops and then suddenly 
   some output in discussions. That is definitely strange.                      

⏺ You're right to push back on all three points. Let me think through them
  properly.

  On the folder structure — yeah, having docs/workshops/ for the workshop file
  and then docs/discussions/ for the output would be weird. The workshop is the
  alignment artifact. It doesn't need to pretend to be a /discuss output. I was
  anchoring too hard on backward compatibility with /create-plan.

  On the output format — I was assuming the workshop must feed into your
  existing /create-plan command, which expects that specific discussion format.
  But that's the wrong framing. Let me restate the actual situation:

  The workshop produces two artifacts:
  1. The workshop state file — the full record (slides, tiles, comments, chat,
  approval status). This is the primary artifact.
  2. A summary/output file — a distilled version for whatever comes next.

  The question is: what does "whatever comes next" look like?

  Right now your pipeline is: /discuss → discussion file → /create-plan → plan
  file → /implement-plan. If Agentic Workshop replaces /discuss for certain
  tasks, then either:

  - Option A: The workshop's summary output matches the discussion format, so
  /create-plan works unchanged. Pragmatic but forces a specific shape.
  - Option B: The workshop's summary output has its own format, and /create-plan
   gets updated to accept either format. More honest, but more work.
  - Option C: The workshop doesn't produce a separate summary at all. The
  workshop state file is the artifact, and /create-plan learns to read it
  directly. Simplest, but the workshop file might be too noisy for planning
  input.

  I actually think the cleanest answer might be: don't decide the output format 
  now. For V1, the workshop produces and saves its state file. That's the
  artifact. The question of how it feeds into planning is a separate concern —
  it might be Option A, B, or C, and you'll have a better sense after you've
  actually run a few workshops and seen what the state files look like.

  Does that feel right? Or do you want the workshop-to-planning bridge figured
  out now?

  One more thing I want to surface before we wrap the discussion: the workshop 
  state file format is doing a lot of work. It's the prepare→present handoff,
  the live state during the workshop, the primary output artifact, and the
  future export/import format. I want to make sure we're aligned that designing
  this format carefully is probably the first implementation task — everything
  else (server extensions, UI, skill commands) depends on it.

  Anything you want to clarify or push back on before I write up the discussion
  summary?

❯ I agree that option C would be good, but in order to reduce noise I think     
  some things are not needed like for example some mermaid or some SVG it could 
   be very noisy or very verbose. So maybe that would not be so good. it would  
  pollute the context so maybe there should be a stripped down version of this. 
   But maybe my thoughts are not so good. but maybe even mermaid is good as     
  context.                                                                      
                                                                                
  And then I have another thought. not, for sure we will need to have this      
  workshop state format also in TypeScript because the So a server needs to     
  handle it. shouldn't this maybe be a separate file a type definition because  
  then also Also, the skill could reference that TypeScript file and then in    
  the skill it could, at the the appropriate places point to that TypeScript    
  file. and maybe also the skill markdown file. Maybe there is a separate       
  Markdown file just to describe the slide data structure in Markdown. or YAML, 
   sorry, I think it was YAML, right? we agreed on. So I think we need          
  TypeScript. data type as a separate file and it would possibly be cool to     
  have also the yaml somewhere defined find or maybe yeah what are your         
  thoughts is this like introducing redundancy                                  
                                                                                
  And another just the thought on how much this should be interconnected with   
  the other skill, creating the plan and so on. I don't want to have            
  dependencies on other skills in this skill. This should be self-contained.    
                                                                                
  Should we maybe look at the format together right now?                        

⏺ Good thinking on all of these. Let me respond:

  Stripped-down version: Your instinct is right. Full mermaid source and SVG
  blobs would be noisy. But the text content, questions, comments, and decisions
   are the valuable signal. I think the answer is: the workshop state file is
  the complete record, and if something downstream needs a leaner version, it
  can be produced at that point — either by the agent summarizing, or by a
  mechanical "strip visual content, keep text" pass. We don't build that now,
  but the format should make it easy to distinguish "text content" from "visual
  content" so stripping is straightforward later.

  TypeScript types as the source of truth: Not redundant — this is the right
  call. The TypeScript file is the single authoritative definition. The server
  imports it directly. The skill markdown can reference it so the agent knows
  the exact shape. You don't need a separate YAML spec document — the TypeScript
   types are the spec, and the markdown in the skill describes how to use them.
  One source of truth, two consumers (server and agent).

  Self-contained: Agreed. No dependency on discuss-plan-implement. If someone
  wants to chain workshop output into /create-plan, that's a workflow choice
  they make, not a coupling we bake in.

  Let's look at the format. I'll sketch the TypeScript types and the
  corresponding file representation. Here's how I'd model it — tell me where it
  feels wrong:

  interface Workshop {
    id: string;
    title: string;
    description?: string;
    status: "preparing" | "ready" | "active" | "finalized";
    created: string;           // ISO date
    slides: Slide[];
    chat: ChatMessage[];       // general chat, not per-slide
  }

  interface Slide {
    id: string;
    title: string;
    order: number;
    tiles: Tile[];
  }

  interface Tile {
    id: string;
    type: "markdown" | "mermaid" | "kroki" | "html" | "svg";
    title?: string;
    content: string;
    size: "full" | "half";
    comments: Comment[];
    // kroki-specific
    krokiDiagramType?: string;
    krokiOutputFormat?: string;
  }

  interface Comment {
    id: string;
    author: "user" | "agent";
    content: string;
    status: "pending" | "applied" | "removed";
    createdAt: string;         // ISO timestamp
    appliedAt?: string;        // when the agent acted on it
  }

  interface ChatMessage {
    id: string;
    author: "user" | "agent";
    content: string;
    createdAt: string;
  }

  And for the on-disk file — here's where I want to surface a tradeoff:

  Option A: YAML/Markdown hybrid — human-readable, fits your
  markdown-as-universal-interface philosophy, but parsing nested structures
  (tiles within slides, comments within tiles) from markdown is fragile.

  Option B: JSON file — trivially parseable, TypeScript types map directly to
  it, round-trips perfectly. Less pleasant to read by hand, but you'd normally
  view it through the browser UI anyway.

  Option C: YAML file — middle ground. More readable than JSON, handles nesting
  well, parseable without custom logic. .workshop.yaml or .workshop.yml.

  Given that this file needs to survive prepare → present → export → import
  round-trips without data loss, and that the primary "reading" interface is the
   browser (not a text editor), I'd lean toward YAML. Human-readable enough that
   you can inspect it, structured enough that parsing is reliable. What do you
  think?

✻ Crunched for 48s

❯ ok yaml; regarding the stripped down version: Should we just directly now     
  make it so that it is directly produced?                                      

⏺ Yes, I think so. It's a small addition to the finalization step and solves a
  real problem now rather than creating debt.

  When the user clicks "Finalize Workshop," it produces two files:

  1. Full workshop state — docs/workshops/YYYY-MM-DD-<slug>.workshop.yaml —
  complete record, all tiles including visual content, all comments, full chat
  log.
  2. Workshop summary — docs/workshops/YYYY-MM-DD-<slug>.summary.md —
  stripped-down markdown. Text content, decisions, applied comments, resolved
  questions. Visual tiles get a placeholder like > [diagram: Architecture 
  Overview] so you know something was there without the noise.

  Both live in docs/workshops/ side by side. The summary is what you'd feed to a
   planning agent or read in a text editor. The full state is what you'd import
  to resume or review the workshop visually.

  The agent produces the summary as its last act during finalization — it reads
  the workshop state and writes a curated markdown summary, similar to how
  /discuss writes its output but with the freedom to structure it based on what
  the workshop actually covered.

  Two quick clarifications:

  1. Does the summary get produced by the agent (curated, intelligent summary)
  or mechanically by the server (automated strip of visual content)? I'd say the
   agent — it can judge what matters, what was resolved, what's still open.

  2. Should both files be written to disk by the agent (via the skill), or does
  the server handle the full state export while the agent writes the summary?
  This matters because the server holds the live state and the agent holds the
  intelligence.

❯ the summary is produced by the agent                                          
                                                                                
  maybe the server could write the file to disk (less token waste and typesafe) 
   and then the agent could pick it up to produce the summary?                  

⏺ That's a clean split of responsibilities:

  1. Server writes the full workshop state YAML to disk — it has the complete
  typed state, no serialization guesswork, no token waste sending the whole
  thing through the agent's context.
  2. Agent reads that file from disk, produces the curated summary markdown
  alongside it.

  The server just needs one new endpoint — something like POST 
  /api/workshop/finalize — that writes the YAML file and returns the path. The
  agent calls it, gets the path back, reads the file, writes the summary.

  I think we've reached alignment on the core design. Let me do a quick
  inventory of what we've decided to make sure nothing slipped through:

  - Two commands: /workshop-prepare (writes workshop YAML to disk) and
  /workshop-start (loads YAML if exists, else prepares first, then presents)
  - Server: Extends claude-viz pattern — Bun, single-file, local
  - Agent transport: curl with allowed-tools auto-approval
  - UI layout: Sidebar (left) + slides (center) + chat panel (right, resizable)
  - Three interaction modes: General chat, tile comments (append →
  edit/remove/apply), question-tiles (same as comments, no special type)
  - Inbox: Server-side, session-scoped, polled by agent, mark-as-consumed (never
   delete)
  - Finalization: Single button, server writes full state YAML, agent writes
  summary markdown
  - File format: TypeScript types as source of truth, YAML serialization on disk
  - Both artifacts in docs/workshops/
  - Self-contained: No dependency on other skills
  - Deferred: Export/import from browser, breaks/resume, MCP transport,
  per-slide approval

  Anything I'm missing or got wrong? If this looks right, I'll write the
  discussion file.

❯ Agree, write the file                                                         

⏺ Bash(mkdir -p /Users/work1618/.superset/worktrees/agent-workshop/honeysuckle-a
      lyssum/docs/discussions)
  ⎿  Done

⏺ Write(docs/discussions/2026-04-16-agentic-workshop.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 66 lines to docs/discussions/2026-04-16-agentic-workshop.md
      2 story: "Build Agentic Workshop — a browser-based, slide-driven al
        hronously and then guides the user through it interactively"async
      4 ---ated: 2026-04-16
      5 
      7 # Discussion: Agentic Workshop
      9 Replace the synchronous CLI `/discuss` flow (and the failed async
         GitHub Issue approach) with a hybrid async-prep + sync-presentat
        es a visual, slide-based workshop, then guides the user through i
        he tool extends the existing `claude-viz` skill's architecture (B
        un server, sidebar+cards UI, SSE, curl
     … +121 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Now let me save what I've learned about you and this project to memory.

  Recalled 1 memory, wrote 4 memories (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Discussion written to docs/discussions/2026-04-16-agentic-workshop.md.
  Ready for /discuss-plan-implement:create-plan when you are.